The PMI standards define the project environment through two major categories of influences: Enterprise Environmental Factors (EEFs) and Organizational Process Assets (OPAs). These originate from the environment both inside and outside the organization.
{b}Enterprise Environmental Factors (EEFs){b}
EEFs refer to conditions, not under the control of the project team, that influence, constrain, or direct the project. These factors may enhance or constrain project management options and have a positive or negative influence on the outcome.
{b}EEFs Internal to the Organization:{b}
Organizational culture, structure, and governance: Examples include vision, mission, values, beliefs, cultural norms, leadership style, hierarchy and authority relationships, organizational style, ethics, code of conduct, policies, and procedures.
Geographic distribution of facilities and resources: Examples include factory locations and virtual teams.
Infrastructure: Examples include existing facilities, equipment, organizational telecommunications channels, information technology hardware, availability, and capacity.
Information technology software: Examples include scheduling software tools, configuration management systems, web interfaces, and work authorization systems.
Resource availability: Examples include contracting and purchasing constraints, approved providers and subcontractors, and collaboration agreements.
Employee capability: Examples include existing human resources expertise, skills, competencies, and specialized knowledge.
{b}EEFs External to the Organization:{b}
Marketplace conditions: Examples include competitors, market share brand recognition, and trademarks.
Social and cultural influences and issues: Examples include political climate, codes of conduct, ethics, and perceptions.
Legal restrictions: Examples include country or local laws and regulations related to security, data protection, business conduct, employment, and procurement.
Commercial databases: Examples include benchmarking results, standardized cost estimating data, and industry risk study information.
Academic research: Examples include industry studies, publications, and benchmarking results.
Government or industry standards: Examples include regulatory agency regulations and standards related to products, production, environment, quality, and workmanship.
Financial considerations: Examples include currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, tariffs, and geographic location.
Physical environmental elements: Examples include working conditions, weather, and constraints.
{b}Organizational Process Assets (OPAs){b}
OPAs are the plans, processes, documents, templates, and knowledge repositories specific to and used by the performing organization. These assets influence the management of the project.
{b}Plans, Processes, and Documents:{b} This category includes artifacts such as:
Guidelines and criteria for tailoring standard processes.
Product and project life cycles, and methods and procedures.
Templates (e.g., project management plans, project documents, risk registers).
Preapproved supplier lists and contract agreements.
Change control procedures.
Issue and defect management processes.
Project closure guidelines or requirements.
{b}Organizational Knowledge Repositories:{b} This category includes repositories for storing and retrieving information, such as:
Configuration management knowledge repositories containing versions of standards, policies, and project documents.
Financial data repositories containing information such as labor hours, incurred costs, and budgets.
Historical information and lessons learned knowledge repositories.
Issue and defect management data repositories.
Data repositories for metrics on processes and products.
Project files from previous projects.