PRINCE2 places a central focus on the "People" element, treating team management as a critical activity for leading successful change and building effective, collaborative teams within the project ecosystem.
{b}People are Central to the Method{b}
Projects are delivered by people in a temporary team, typically working across organizational boundaries. The people assigned to work on projects often have multiple reporting lines. This requires a different style of management and leadership than that used for established business teams.
{b}Leading Successful Teams{b}
The standard outlines several key concepts for effective team leadership:
Leadership: Motivating people to achieve a project’s objectives. On projects, this is best done through collaboration, persuading, influencing, and co-creating.
Management: Instructing the execution of tasks in line with agreed ways of working. Co-creating ways of working with project team members significantly improves people’s willingness to be managed.
Collaboration: People from across the project ecosystem working together to achieve the project’s objectives.
{b}Building Effective Teams{b}
An effective team requires a diverse set of capabilities, competencies, and perspectives that match the requirements of the project.
It is important to understand the competencies and capabilities of the people recruited or assigned to a project and ensure any gaps are identified and mitigations established.
As temporary organizations, project teams may not have worked together before and may need to quickly discover how to work together effectively. Structured exercises that focus on building self-awareness and understanding of others’ perspectives can build trust.
An integral part of building an effective team is that team members feel accepted, respected, and able to express diverse viewpoints without fear of negative consequences (psychological safety).
{b}Bringing the Team Together{b}
Whether projects are delivered virtually, in person, or through a hybrid approach, the way people work together must be carefully considered to build social cohesion. This is developed by:
People meeting in a purposeful way on a regular basis.
Considering how key relationships will be developed and maintained.
Considering the benefits of co-locating to facilitate organic relationship building.
For virtual teams, using activities like syncing co-location days, allowing for unstructured online conversations, and holding ‘away days.'